Self hosted docs logan (#1625)
tinacms/tina.io: content/docs/self-hosted/querying-data.md

---
title: Querying Data using the database
id: '/docs/self-hosted/querying-data'
---

## Overview

> When using TinaCloud you use the [TinaCMS client](/docs/data-fetching/overview/) this uses fetch to request data from TinaCloud. When self hosting the URL if the GraphQL endpoint will likely not be available when querying Data on the backend. For this reason, we provide a `databaseClient` that can be used to query data from the database directly. This should be used when querying data on the server. For example; `getStaticProps`, `getServerSideProps`, or using React Server Components, etc.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When using Tina Cloud you use the [TinaCMS client](/docs/data-fetching/overview/). This uses the fetch api to request data from Tina Cloud. When self-hosting, the URL of the GraphQL endpoint will likely not be available when querying data on the backend. For this reason, we provide a `databaseClient` that can be used to query data from the database directly. This should be used when querying data on the server. For example; `getStaticProps`, `getServerSideProps`, or using React Server Components, etc.
```

## How does it work?

> The `databaseClient` uses exported database in your `database.{ts,js}`. It creates a GraphQL resolves that uses the database to resolve data from the database.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `databaseClient` uses the exported database in your `database.{ts,js}`. It creates a GraphQL resolver that uses the database to retrieve data from the database.
```

## Usage

> The `databaseClient` is has the name interface as the [TinaCMS client](/docs/data-fetching/overview/). This means you can use it in the same way you would use the [TinaCMS client](/docs/data-fetching/overview/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `databaseClient` has the same interface as the [TinaCMS client](/docs/data-fetching/overview/). This means you can use it in the same way you would use the [TinaCMS client](/docs/data-fetching/overview/).
```

---

> title: Querying Content in Self-Hosted Backend

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Querying Content in Self-hosted Backend
```

id: '/docs/self-hosted/querying-data'
next: '/docs/self-hosted/graphql-endpoint/overview'
---

## Overview

When using Tina Cloud, you would typically use the [TinaCMS client](/docs/data-fetching/overview/) to query your content.

```js
import { client } from '../[pathToTina]/tina/__generated__/client'

const myPost = await client.queries.blogPost({
  relativePath: 'HelloWorld.md',
})

console.log(myPost.title)
```

Under the hood, this uses the fetch api to request data from Tina Cloud.

When self-hosting, since your database content is fully scoped to your project, you're able to communicate with the database directly. We provide a separate `databaseClient` that can be used to query data from the database.

```diff
- import { client } from '../[pathToTina]/tina/__generated__/client'
+ import { client } from '../[pathToTina]/tina/__generated__/databaseClient'

// ...
```

> This `databaseClient` should be used when querying data on the server. For example; `getStaticProps`, `getServerSideProps`, or using React Server Components, etc.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This `databaseClient` should be used when querying data on the server. For example: `getStaticProps`, `getServerSideProps`, or using React Server Components, etc.
```
